Linux file system:- A Linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition.
	 A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data. 
	In our machine, there can be various partitions of the memory. Generally, every partition contains a file system.

The general-purpose computer system needs to store data systematically so that we can easily access the files in less time.
It stores the data on hard disks (HDD) or some equivalent storage type. There may be below reasons for maintaining the file system:

Computer saves data to the RAM storage; it may lose the data if it gets turned off. 
However, there is non-volatile RAM (Flash RAM and SSD) that is available to maintain the data after the power interruption.


The linux file system contains the following sections:-
1. the root directory(/)
2. A specific data storage format (EXT3, EXT4, XFS, BTRFS etc)
3. A partition or logical volume having a particular system.


what is the linux file sysytem?
	Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage. 
It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage. 
It manages the file name, file size, creation date, and much more information about a file.


Let's discuss each of the file system:-
The file system ext stands for Extended File System. it was primarily developed fir minix os.
the ext file system is an older version, and is no longer used due to some limitations.

ext2:- it is first Linux file system that allows managing two terabytes of data.

ext3:- ext3 is developed through ext2,
	 it is an upgraded version of Ext2 and contains backward compatibility. 
	The major drawback of ext3 is that it does not support servers because this file system does not support file recovery and disk snapshot.

ext4:- Ext4 file system is the faster file system among all the Ext file systems.
	 It is a very compatible option for the SSD (solid-state drive) disks, and it is the default file system in Linux distribution.

xfs:- XFS file system was considered as high-speed JFS(Journaled File System), which is developed for parallel I/O processing. 
NASA still using this file system with its high storage server (300+ Terabyte server).



