Linux file system:- A Linux file system is a structured collection of files on a disk drive or a partition.
	 A partition is a segment of memory and contains some specific data. 
	In our machine, there can be various partitions of the memory. Generally, every partition contains a file system.

The general-purpose computer system needs to store data systematically so that we can easily access the files in less time.
It stores the data on hard disks (HDD) or some equivalent storage type. There may be below reasons for maintaining the file system:

Computer saves data to the RAM storage; it may lose the data if it gets turned off. 
However, there is non-volatile RAM (Flash RAM and SSD) that is available to maintain the data after the power interruption.


The linux file system contains the following sections:-
1. the root directory(/)
2. A specific data storage format (EXT3, EXT4, XFS, BTRFS etc)
3. A partition or logical volume having a particular system.


what is the linux file sysytem?
	Linux file system is generally a built-in layer of a Linux operating system used to handle the data management of the storage. 
It helps to arrange the file on the disk storage. 
It manages the file name, file size, creation date, and much more information about a file.


Let's discuss each of the file system:-
The file system ext stands for Extended File System. it was primarily developed fir minix os.
the ext file system is an older version, and is no longer used due to some limitations.

ext2:- it is first Linux file system that allows managing two terabytes of data.

ext3:- ext3 is developed through ext2,
	 it is an upgraded version of Ext2 and contains backward compatibility. 
	The major drawback of ext3 is that it does not support servers because this file system does not support file recovery and disk snapshot.

ext4:- Ext4 file system is the faster file system among all the Ext file systems.
	 It is a very compatible option for the SSD (solid-state drive) disks, and it is the default file system in Linux distribution.

xfs:- XFS file system was considered as high-speed JFS(Journaled File System), which is developed for parallel I/O processing. 
NASA still using this file system with its high storage server (300+ Terabyte server).


File security:- On a database management system, most security issues revolve around protecting valuable data from unauthorized use or modification. 
	The use of secure passwords is the best way to limit access by users and therefore restrict file access. 

permission:- Linux is a clone of UNIX, the multi-user operating system which can be accessed by many users simultaneously. Linux can also be used in mainframes and servers without any modifications.
	every file and directory in our linux/unix system has following 3 permission:
	1. Read:- this permission gives the authority to open and read a file. 
		read permission on a direcory gives the ability to list the content.

	2. Write:- the write permission gives the authority to modify the content of a file.

	3. Execute:- in linux, we can not run a program unless the execute permission is set.if the execute permission is not swt,
			we can't be able to see/modify the program code. but not run it.

	on terminal:- about the unix permission given to the owner, user group and the world:-  ls -l
			changing file/directory permission with 'chmod' command:- chmod permission filename.


ownership:- Every file and directory on our linux system assigned 3 types of owner:- 
	1.User:- A user is the owner of the file. By default, the person who created a file becomes its owner. Hence, a user is also sometimes called an owner.

	2. Group:- A user- group can contain multiple users. All users belonging to a group will have the same Linux group permissions access to the file.
			Suppose we have a project where a number of people require access to a file. Instead of manually assigning permissions to each user, first we could add all users to a group, 
			and assign group permission to file such that only this group members and no one else can read or modify the files.
	
	3. other:- Any other user who has access to a file. This person has neither created the file, nor he belongs to a usergroup who could own the file.


Special permission:- SUID(Set owner User ID) is a special permission assigned to a file. These permissions allow the file being executed to be executed with the privileges of the owner. For example, 
	if a file was owned by the root user and has the setuid bit set, no matter who executed the file it would always run with root user privileges.



Linux package management:- package management is a method of installing and maintaining software on the system.

apt:- The apt-get utility is a powerful and free package management command line program, that is used to work with Ubuntu’s APT (Advanced Packaging Tool) 
	library to perform installation of new software packages, removing existing software packages, 
	upgrading of existing software packages and even used to upgrading the entire operating system.
	
	To list all the available packages:- $ apt-cache pkgnames
	
dpkg:- dpkg is the main package management program in Debian and Debian based System. 
	It is used to install, build, remove, and manage packages. Aptitude is the primary front-end to dpkg.
	
	command for install a package:- [root@sagar~]# dpkg -i sagar1234.deb
	List all the installed Packages:- [root@sagar~]# dpkg -l
	Remove a Package:- [root@sagar~]# dpkg -r sagar1234
	
yum:- YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified) is an open source command-line as well as graphical based package management tool
	for RPM (RedHat Package Manager) based Linux systems. 
	It allows users and system administrator to easily install, update, remove or search software packages on a systems.
	
	install a package with yum:-  # yum install firefox
	remove : remove
	
	
rpm:- YUM (Yellowdog Updater Modified) is an open source command-line as well as graphical based package management tool
	for RPM (RedHat Package Manager) based Linux systems.
	It allows users and system administrator to easily install, update, remove or search software packages on a systems.
	to install an rpm package:-[root@sagar]# rpm -ivh sagar1233.rpm
	

