process management :-  Process Management is the series of tasks a System Administrator completes to monitor, manage, and maintain instances of running applications.
 
 Starting a Process:-
            Foreground Processes:- every process that start runs in the foreground. It gets its input from the keyboard and sends its output to the screen.
            for see all files:- $ls ch*.doc
            
            Background Processes:- The advantage of running a process in the background is that is run other commands; 
            we do not have to wait until it completes to start another!
            The simplest way to start a background process is to add an ampersand (&) at the end of the command.
                                  $ls ch*.doc &
                              
  parent and child processes:- Each unix process has two ID numbers assigned to it: The Process ID (pid) and the Parent process ID (ppid). 
          Each user process in the system has a parent process.
        Most of the commands that run have the shell as their parent.
        command for listed both the process ID and the parent process ID. :-  ps -f  
        
        
       
Disk Management:- Linux disk management includes several important tasks such as adding or removing storage devices, 
               creating and deleting partitions, mounting partitions on appropriate directories and making file system in partitions. 
               

Disk Partitioning in Linux
In most cases, large storage devices are divided into separate sections called partitions. 
Partitioning also allows you to divide your hard drive into isolated sections, where each section behaves as its own hard drive.

Formating:- Disk formatting is a process to configure the data-storage devices such as hard-drive,
         when we are going to use them for the very first time or we can say initial usage.
         
         Disk formating involves:-
         1. low level formating
         2. partitioning
         3. high level formating:- It is done to erase the hard-disk and again installing the operating system on the disk-drive.
                                   Firstly High-level formatting clears the data on hard-disk, then it will generate boot information, 
                                   the it will initialize FAT after this it will go for label logical bad sectors when partition has existed.
                                   
File system in depth:- 
         
         
